---
layout: post
title: "Customer Grading and Scoring"
---

Grading and Scoring customers has been around for a very long time. In fact
there are many businesses that do this around prospects. Many salespeople do
this for companies or people withing their sales pipeline. Many marketing
automation software allows you to do this.

However there does not seem to be a good option when it comes to eCommerce. What
if we were to take some on those same principals and applied it to the customers
we have?

<!--more-->

Customer grading, the act of assigning a letter grade to a customer, and
customer scoring, the act of assigning a score to a customer, can be very
powerful!

Let's take some examples. Meet Bob, he has bought 3 times from your store in the
past 12 months. Meet Alice, who has bought a staggering 6 times from your store!
Which one of these customers are better? Which one have you made more profit off
of?

Before we go any further, let's setup a few runs. We assign 1 point for every
order a customer places. We also want to assign 1 point for every dollar spent
on your store. Now let's go a little further and assign some points for things
such as subscribing to our newsletter. Let's give that 10 points.

Now we begin to score each of our customers.

Bob has made 3 purchases. Each purchase was for $50 USD each. He also subscribes
to the newsletter. This gives Bob a total score of (3 + 150 + 10) 163. Not bad,
but what about Alice?

Alice has made 6 purchases. The total amount of spent was $100 USD. Alice does
not subscribe to our newsletter. This gives Alice a total score of (6 + 100)
106, which is smaller than Bob.

It looks as if Bob is a better customer, but is he really? We were looking at
the past 12 months, what would happen if we looked at the past 3 months? Each
business is different and it might be that each person placed one order per
month. If that's the case, looking at smaller time frames would give us a
different result.

We could now configure a few things to give each customer a grade based on the
score they have. This is something that will change based on the business and
it's one that each business will know what is best for them.

I truly believe that this information is very powerful and begins to let
business owners market toward each grade of customer. For example, run a
campaign that targets your A list customers. They are more likely to buy than a
customer that is a C. This also let's you start to run campaigns to try to
increase each customers grade. You can also use it to run win back campaigns.

When you take this and combine it with some marketing. It's a win win for your
customer and for your business.

Because I strongly believe in this, I have creating a Shopify App that I call
[Customer Grading] that gives you this information.


[Customer Grading]: https://apps.shopify.com/customer-grading?utm_source=dspacelabs&utm_medium=blog&utm_campaign=atricle
